This section defines the inspirations, ideas and analysis behind the MU language concepts.

_MU_ takes a large inspiration from the cited works{{{[1,2]}}} 
and also from several industrial products (see section Comparison).
 
In particular from  [http://mashmaker.intel.com/ Mash Maker] is taken the concept 
of
 editing and manipulating semi-structured live data

The {{{Untiped Tree Data Model}}} is at the origin of the user induction logic.

_MU_ then takes inspiration from {{{Prolog [3,4,5]}}} for the logic programming approach 
and in particular for the _unification_ concept.

_MU_ is inspired to {{{Erlang[6]}}} for what concerns parallelization and distribution. 
The adoption of the functional paradigm is furthermore motivated by the implicit capacity
of this class of languages to write applications that take advantage of the distributed model.

_MU_ provides operations for graph data processing meant to realize {{{Semantic Web [7,8,9]}}} solutions.
----

==References==

{{{[1]}}} N. Zang and M. B. Rosson. What’s in a mashup? and 
why? studying the perceptions of web-active end 
users. In Visual Languages and Human-Centric 
Computing, 2008. VL/HCC 2008. IEEE Symposium 
on, pages 31–38, 2008.
 
{{{[2]}}} N. Zang, M. B. Rosson, and V. Nasser. Mashups: 
who? what? why? In CHI ’08: CHI ’08 extended 
abstracts on Human factors in computing systems, 
New York, NY, USA, 2008. ACM.

{{{[3]}}} S. Antoy and M. Hanus. Functional logic design 
patterns. pages 67–87. 2002.

{{{[4]}}} P. Hudak. Conception, evolution, and application of 
functional programming languages. ACM Comput. 
Surv., 1989.
 
{{{[5]}}} K. Knight. Uniﬁcation: a multidisciplinary survey. 
ACM Comput. Surv., March 1989.

{{{[6]}}} C. Wikstrom. Distributed programming in erlang, 
1994.

{{{[7]}}} R. J. Ennals and M. N. Garofalakis. Mashmaker: 
mashups for the masses. In SIGMOD ’07: Proceedings 
of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international conference 
on Management of data, New York, 
NY, USA, 2007. ACM.

{{{[8]}}} C. Bizer, T. Heath, K. Idehen, and T. Berners-Lee. 
Linked data on the web (ldow2008). In WWW ’08: 
Proceeding of the 17th international conference on 
World Wide Web, New York, NY, 
USA, 2008. ACM.
 
{{{[9]}}} M. Franklin, A. Halevy, and D. Maier. From databases 
to dataspaces: a new abstraction for information 
management. SIGMOD Rec., 2005. 